.github/instructions/markdown.instructions.md, before:

---
description: 'Documentation and content creation standards'
applyTo: '**/*.md'
---

## Markdown Content Rules

The following markdown content rules are enforced by markdownlint and MUST be followed:

1. **Headings**: Use appropriate heading levels (H2, H3, etc.) to structure your content. Do not use an H1 heading, as this will be generated based on the title.
2. **Lists**: Use bullet points or numbered lists for lists. Ensure proper indentation and spacing.
3. **Code Blocks**: **ALWAYS specify language for fenced code blocks.** Use triple backticks with language identifier (e.g., ```go, ```json, ```bash, ```text).
4. **Links**: Use proper markdown syntax for links. Ensure that links are valid and accessible.
5. **Images**: Use proper markdown syntax for images. Include alt text for accessibility.
6. **Tables**: Use markdown tables for tabular data. Ensure proper formatting and alignment.
7. **Line Length**: **CRITICAL** - Limit line length to **120 characters** maximum. Break long lines into multiple lines.
8. **Whitespace**: Use appropriate whitespace to separate sections and improve readability.
9. **Front Matter**: Include YAML front matter at the beginning of the file with required metadata fields.
10. **File and Document References**: **ALWAYS hyperlink references to files, documents, and ADRs.** Never reference a file or document by name without providing a clickable link to it.
11. **No Emphasis as Headings**: **NEVER use bold/italic text as headings.** Use proper heading syntax (`####`) instead of `**Bold Text**` for section headers.

## Formatting and Structure

Follow these guidelines for formatting and structuring your markdown content:

- **Headings**: Use `##` for H2, `###` for H3, `####` for H4. **Never use bold text (`**Text**`) as a heading substitute.** Always use proper heading syntax.
  - ✅ **GOOD**: `#### Section Title`
  - ❌ **BAD**: `**Section Title**` (emphasis used as heading)
- **Lists**: Use `-` for bullet points and `1.` for numbered lists. Indent nested lists with two spaces.
- **Code Blocks**: **ALWAYS specify language.** Use triple backticks with language identifier immediately after opening backticks.
  - ✅ **GOOD**: ` ```go`, ` ```json`, ` ```bash`, ` ```text`, ` ```yaml`
  - ❌ **BAD**: ` ``` ` (no language specified)
  - Common languages: `go`, `json`, `yaml`, `bash`, `text`, `markdown`, `dockerfile`, `sql`
- **Line Length**: **Maximum 120 characters per line.** Break long lines by:
  - Splitting sentences at natural break points
  - Breaking after commas or conjunctions
  - Using soft line breaks (newlines without blank lines)
  - Example:
    ```text
    ✅ GOOD:
    A high-performance service that monitors directories for
    CSV files and converts them to JSON format.

    ❌ BAD:
    A high-performance service that monitors directories for CSV files and converts them to JSON format with routing capabilities.
    ```
- **Links**: Use `[link text](url)` for links. Ensure that the link text is descriptive and the URL is valid.
- **File References**: **CRITICAL** - Always hyperlink file and document references. Use relative paths appropriate to file location.
  - ✅ **GOOD**: `See [ADR-006](../../docs/adrs/ADR-006-message-envelope-and-provenance-metadata.md) for details` (from `.github/instructions/`)
  - ✅ **GOOD**: `Configuration in [routes.json.example](../../routes.json.example)` (from `.github/instructions/`)
  - ✅ **GOOD**: `Refer to [TESTING.md](../../TESTING.md) for test instructions` (from `.github/instructions/`)
  - ❌ **BAD**: `See ADR-006 for details` (not hyperlinked)
  - ❌ **BAD**: `Configuration in routes.json.example` (not hyperlinked)
  - This applies to: ADRs, configuration files, documentation files, source code files, test files, and any other project artifacts
- **Images**: Use `![alt text](image URL)` for images. Include a brief description of the image in the alt text.
- **Tables**: Use `|` to create tables. Ensure that columns are properly aligned and headers are included.
- **Whitespace**: Use blank lines to separate sections and improve readability. Avoid excessive whitespace.

## Validation Requirements

Ensure compliance with the following validation requirements:

- **Front Matter**: Include the following fields in the YAML front matter:

  - `post_title`: The title of the post.
  - `author1`: The primary author of the post.
  - `post_slug`: The URL slug for the post.
  - `microsoft_alias`: The Microsoft alias of the author.
  - `featured_image`: The URL of the featured image.
  - `categories`: The categories for the post. These categories must be from the list in /categories.txt.
  - `tags`: The tags for the post.
  - `ai_note`: Indicate if AI was used in the creation of the post.
  - `summary`: A brief summary of the post. Recommend a summary based on the content when possible.
  - `post_date`: The publication date of the post.

- **Content Rules**: Ensure that the content follows the markdown content rules specified above.
- **Formatting**: Ensure that the content is properly formatted and structured according to the guidelines.
- **Validation**: Run the validation tools to check for compliance with the rules and guidelines.

Commit message:

docs: fix markdown validation issues and improve docker-compose
Markdown Fixes:
- markdown.instructions.md: Changed placeholder examples from (url) to (URL) and (image URL) to (IMAGE_URL) to avoid VS Code treating them as broken links
- .markdownlint.json: Added MD034: false to disable bare URL detection that was incorrectly flagging Go code in fenced blocks (e.g., t *testing.T)
- copilot-instructions.md: Restructured cmd/csv2json/main.go link format and added ./ prefix to test-driven-maintenance.instructions.md link for better VS Code resolution

Docker Improvements:
- docker-compose.yml: Added rabbitmq_data volume mount for message persistence across container restarts
- docker-compose.yml: Changed healthcheck to 'rabbitmq-diagnostics -q ping' (official recommended check, faster and quieter than check_port_connectivity)
- docker-compose.yml: Added volumes section declaring rabbitmq_data volume

Note: .vscode/settings.json also updated (disabled markdown.validate.* due to OneDrive path spaces issue, alphabetized settings, added missing cSpell words) but is gitignored

.github/instructions/markdown.instructions.md, after:

---
description: 'Documentation and content creation standards'
applyTo: '**/*.md'
---

## Markdown Content Rules

The following markdown content rules are enforced by markdownlint and MUST be followed:

1. **Headings**: Use appropriate heading levels (H2, H3, etc.) to structure your content. Do not use an H1 heading, as this will be generated based on the title.
2. **Lists**: Use bullet points or numbered lists for lists. Ensure proper indentation and spacing.
3. **Code Blocks**: **ALWAYS specify language for fenced code blocks.** Use triple backticks with language identifier (e.g., ```go, ```json, ```bash, ```text).
4. **Links**: Use proper markdown syntax for links. Ensure that links are valid and accessible.
5. **Images**: Use proper markdown syntax for images. Include alt text for accessibility.
6. **Tables**: Use markdown tables for tabular data. Ensure proper formatting and alignment.
7. **Line Length**: **CRITICAL** - Limit line length to **120 characters** maximum. Break long lines into multiple lines.
8. **Whitespace**: Use appropriate whitespace to separate sections and improve readability.
9. **Front Matter**: Include YAML front matter at the beginning of the file with required metadata fields.
10. **File and Document References**: **ALWAYS hyperlink references to files, documents, and ADRs.** Never reference a file or document by name without providing a clickable link to it.
11. **No Emphasis as Headings**: **NEVER use bold/italic text as headings.** Use proper heading syntax (`####`) instead of `**Bold Text**` for section headers.

## Formatting and Structure

Follow these guidelines for formatting and structuring your markdown content:

- **Headings**: Use `##` for H2, `###` for H3, `####` for H4. **Never use bold text (`**Text**`) as a heading substitute.** Always use proper heading syntax.
  - ✅ **GOOD**: `#### Section Title`
  - ❌ **BAD**: `**Section Title**` (emphasis used as heading)
- **Lists**: Use `-` for bullet points and `1.` for numbered lists. Indent nested lists with two spaces.
- **Code Blocks**: **ALWAYS specify language.** Use triple backticks with language identifier immediately after opening backticks.
  - ✅ **GOOD**: ` ```go`, ` ```json`, ` ```bash`, ` ```text`, ` ```yaml`
  - ❌ **BAD**: ` ``` ` (no language specified)
  - Common languages: `go`, `json`, `yaml`, `bash`, `text`, `markdown`, `dockerfile`, `sql`
- **Line Length**: **Maximum 120 characters per line.** Break long lines by:
  - Splitting sentences at natural break points
  - Breaking after commas or conjunctions
  - Using soft line breaks (newlines without blank lines)
  - Example:
    ```text
    ✅ GOOD:
    A high-performance service that monitors directories for
    CSV files and converts them to JSON format.

    ❌ BAD:
    A high-performance service that monitors directories for CSV files and converts them to JSON format with routing capabilities.
    ```
- **Links**: Use `[link text](URL)` for links (replace URL with actual path). Ensure that the link text is descriptive and the URL is valid.
- **File References**: **CRITICAL** - Always hyperlink file and document references. Use relative paths appropriate to file location.
  - ✅ **GOOD** (from `.github/instructions/`): See [ADR-006](../../docs/adrs/ADR-006-message-envelope-and-provenance-metadata.md) for details
  - ✅ **GOOD** (from `.github/instructions/`): Configuration in [routes.json.example](../../routes.json.example)
  - ✅ **GOOD** (from `.github/instructions/`): Refer to [TESTING.md](../../TESTING.md) for test instructions
  - ❌ **BAD**: `See ADR-006 for details` (not hyperlinked)
  - ❌ **BAD**: `Configuration in routes.json.example` (not hyperlinked)
  - This applies to: ADRs, configuration files, documentation files, source code files, test files, and any other project artifacts
- **Images**: Use `![alt text](IMAGE_URL)` for images (replace IMAGE_URL with actual path). Include a brief description of the image in the alt text.
- **Tables**: Use `|` to create tables. Ensure that columns are properly aligned and headers are included.
- **Whitespace**: Use blank lines to separate sections and improve readability. Avoid excessive whitespace.

## Validation Requirements

Ensure compliance with the following validation requirements:

- **Front Matter**: Include the following fields in the YAML front matter:

  - `post_title`: The title of the post.
  - `author1`: The primary author of the post.
  - `post_slug`: The URL slug for the post.
  - `microsoft_alias`: The Microsoft alias of the author.
  - `featured_image`: The URL of the featured image.
  - `categories`: The categories for the post. These categories must be from the list in /categories.txt.
  - `tags`: The tags for the post.
  - `ai_note`: Indicate if AI was used in the creation of the post.
  - `summary`: A brief summary of the post. Recommend a summary based on the content when possible.
  - `post_date`: The publication date of the post.

- **Content Rules**: Ensure that the content follows the markdown content rules specified above.
- **Formatting**: Ensure that the content is properly formatted and structured according to the guidelines.
- **Validation**: Run the validation tools to check for compliance with the rules and guidelines.
